
Alright. Good day! Thank you for coming. I'm gonna give a talk about the role
of English language worldwide with an emphasis on why English is also or maybe
even especially important for so called techmakers. Don't you know who are 
techmakers? - Techmakers are all kinds of engineers, scientists, technical guys
who just make things around us work. They are like most of you in this
audience, technical university students, researchers, engineers, teaching
staff. 

Well, you might have already read my name (I am first year masters' student),
the title and mentioned these two nice guys with guns. Don't you know who
are they? - No, they are not techmakers, they are characters of action
movie Pulp Fiction. You know, the title of my talk is a remade quotation
from this movie. If you haven't watched it yet, go and watch it today.
I want you to watch it in English and today.

English, right, English, techmakers, do you speak it?
---

Okay, so what's the plan?

Here you can see a short plan briefly describing the reasonal points why you'd
better speak English.

It's not only bare business for me to make you think so, but
I have a personal reason to think so by myself and persuade you to think so.

The history also matters. As it was said by Martin Luther King Jr.: <<We are
not makers of history. We are made by history.>> Right you are, Martin. We'll
remember that. So but we are really not history makers - we are techmakers,
right?

That's is why next point we're gonna discuss is why we need English to help us
carry out our research and development.

And in conlusion I will try to give you even more motivation and provide some
tips for learning English.
---

Me, I've tried my best at one major and still try my best at another major.
	
I got my bachelors degree in Instrumentation at the faculty of Automation
and Computer Engineering, dealing a lot with hardware development and design.

Now I am going to my masters' degree at the faculty Applied Math and Computer
Science dealing more with data and algorithms.

I'm telling you  this not to show off, to say that I'm kind a super genius guy.
No!

The point is that it does not matter what you are dealing with: hardware,
software, algorithms. Doesn't matter. The matter is that you will nevertheless
need English and take much benefit from it if you learn it.

And I can't remember a discipline at which I didn't get benefit from my
knowledge of English.

That is my personal experience, personal reason of thinking that English is a
must.
---
Going to some historical reason going back to the times of British Empire
taking large world territory we've got what we've got. The situation is the
following.
---
There are 1.5 billion people around the world speaking English. You can check
it.

In comparison, there are only 400 million people speaking Russian. Almost 4
times less people speaking Russian than English.
--- 

English is the language of world diplomacy, sport, science, technology,
education, the Internet, mass media and tourism and so forth. 
Of course we are mostly interested in science, technology and education.
---

The most terrific point for me and I'm sure that it's also so for some of you,
English is the language of software development. Have you ever seen a programming
language used in production which keywords was from Japanese, Chinese, Russian
or German? - I have not.
---

Speaking and understanding English is about general literacy and awareness.
Generally speaking, the more languages you know, the more aware and literal
you are, the more points of view and opinions you can evaluate.
---

We live in the Age of Infomation. They say that the one who owns information,
that one rules the world. With development of the Internet the more
information became accessible. But not all information is useful. Actually,
that one who can extract knowledge from information that one rules the
world. To extract knowledge one needs deep understanding of the data.
Assuming you dealing with information in English - the better you know
English, the more useful information you can extract. Don't limit yourself
with information only in Russian. Learn English.
---

In my conclusion I want to offer you some tips on improving your English.
Some of them might look for you obvious, though. Watch movies, listen to music,
read, speak and surf the web in English.

Learn English, or these guys will come for you. I promise.

Thank you for your attention. Now I want you to feel free to ask any questions,
give suggestions. You can e-mail me or find me at vk.com. The information
provided here is more than enough - very useful information.
